.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH SYNDAEMON __appmansuffix__ 2013-03-26 __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
syndaemon \- a program that monitors keyboard activity and disables
the touchpad when the keyboard is being used.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fBsyndaemon\fP [\fB\-i\fP \fIidle\-time\fP] [\fB\-m\fP \fIpoll-inverval\fP] \
[\fB\-d\fP] [\fB\-p\fP \fIpid\-file\fP]
          [\fB\-t\fP] [\fB\-k\fP] [\fB\-K\fP] [\fB\-R\fP]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Disabling the touchpad while typing avoids unwanted movements of the
pointer that could lead to giving focus to the wrong window.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIidle\-time\fP
How many seconds to wait after the last key press before enabling the touchpad.
Default is 2.0s.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fIpoll\-interval\fP
How many milliseconds to wait between two polling intervals.
If this value is too low, it will cause unnecessary wake-ups.
If this value is too high, some key presses
(press and release happen between two intervals) may not be noticed.
This switch has no effect when running with \fB-R\fP.
Default is 200ms.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
Start as a daemon, ie in the background.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIpid\-file\fP
Create a pid file with the specified filename.
A pid file will only be created if the program is started in daemon mode.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
Only disable tapping and scrolling, not mouse movements,
in response to keyboard activity.
.TP
\fB\-k\fP
Ignore modifier keys when monitoring keyboard activity.
.TP
\fB\-K\fP
Like \fB\-k\fP but also ignore Modifier+Key combos.
.TP
\fB\-R\fP
Use the XRecord extension for detecting keyboard activity instead of polling
the keyboard state.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP
Show the help message.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
\fBDISPLAY\fP
Specifies the X server to contact.
.SH EXIT CODES
If syndaemon exists with a return code other than 0, the error encountered
is as below.
.TP
.B Exit code 1
Invalid commandline argument.
.TP
.B Exit code 2
The connection to the X sever could not be established or no touchpad device
could be found.
.TP
.B Exit code 3
The fork into daemon mode failed or the pid file could not be created.
.TP
.B Exit code 4
XRECORD requested but not available or usable on the server.
.SH "CAVEATS"
It doesn't make much sense to connect to a remote X server,
because the daemon will then monitor the remote server for keyboard activity,
but will disable the touchpad on the local machine.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Peter Osterlund <petero2@telia.com>.
.TP
This man page was written by Mattia Dongili <malattia@debian.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR __xservername__ (__appmansuffix__),
.BR synclient (__appmansuffix__),
.BR synaptics (__drivermansuffix__)
